Instructor: In today's lecture and the next few lectures,
we're going to talk about pivoting.
We're going to assume that our target
is this Metasploitable device.
Now, each one of these circles, the big circles,
we're going to assume is a network.
And as you can see,
the Metasploitable device is not visible by the hacker.
So the hacker cannot see this device.
This device is hidden either behind the network,
or for some other reason,
the hacker is not able to ping
or access the IP address of this device.
So we're assuming in our example
that it exists in a different internal network.
So we can see that this big network has four devices.
It has the Metasploitable device,
it has an iPhone, another device, and the Windows device,
which we hacked, and we can see that it's in red.
And the hacker exists in this smaller network,
and there's only two devices.
There is the hacker and the red device,
the Windows 10 device which we hacked.
So the target of pivoting
is we use the device that we hacked,
the common device in the middle, to compromise other devices
that only this device has access to.
So our target, the hacker cannot see the target,
which is the Metasploit device.
But the device that we just hacked, the Windows device,
can see that device because they're in the same network.
So in our next videos,
we're going to try to hack into the Metasploitable device
while the meta exploitable device
is not gonna be visible to the hacker,
which is the Kali device.
The only way to access the Metasploitable
is through the Windows device,
which we are going to use as a pivot
in order to hack this device right there.
Now, to replicate this network layout,
we'll need to modify the network settings
of the virtual machines in our lab.
So I have VMware running here already,
and I'm gonna zoom in.
And first of all,
I just wanna show you the network settings for Kali.
So I'm gonna click on Edit settings.
And if we click on Network,
you'll notice that it is connected to an NAT network.
This is the option that we've been using
throughout the course
and I'm actually gonna keep it the same
because Kali is the machine that we use
to hack into other computers,
it's gonna be connected to the NAT network,
and we're gonna use it to gain our initial access
to the Windows machine.
So let's go ahead and have a look on the Windows machine.
So I'm gonna click it here,
and I'm gonna click on its settings,
and we're gonna go to Network.
And if we zoom in,
you'll see that this is connected to a NAT network.
We need this, because as I said,
we're gonna use the Kali machine to hack into this machine
to gain our initial access.
But if we go back to the layout,
you'll notice that the Windows machine
is gonna be the machine that we're gonna use as a pivot
to hack into the other network.
So it's gonna be the link between the two networks,
the network that Kali is connected to
and an unreachable network to Kali
that we actually want to hack through Kali.
Therefore, because this is supposed to be a pivot,
and as we can see in this layout,
it needs to be connected to two networks.
So right now it's already connected
to the NAT network in here, as we can see,
which is the same network that Kali is connected to,
and we need this to gain our initial access.
But we're also gonna click on the Add in here,
and we're gonna add another network adapter
for this computer so that it has two network adapters,
so that we can connect it to two networks.
And we're gonna set this network settings to Bridged
instead of NAT.
So now Windows has two network adapters.
Adapter 1 is connected to a NAT network,
which is the same network that Kali is connected to
so that we can gain initial access to it.
And then, it's also connected to another network
that Kali cannot see.
It's an unreachable network to Kali.
And that's the goal of this scenario,
it's the goal of this module,
to try to reach this unreachable network.
And this second network,
we set it to use a bridged connection.
So we're happy with this.
We're gonna click on OK.
And we're gonna go to the Metasploitable computer
and we're actually gonna set this computer
to also be connected to the same bridged network
that the Windows machine is connected to.
So this way, this Metasploitable machine
is unreachable to Kali because it's connected
to a completely different network than Kali.
Therefore, Kali cannot directly communicate with it
and cannot hack it even if it's vulnerable.
Therefore, we're gonna have to hack
into the Windows machine.
Use the Windows machine as a pivot
because it is the link between the two computers,
between the two networks,
to hack into this unreachable network
or into this unreachable computer.
So I'm gonna zoom out and I'm gonna click on OK.
And we are done now.
So let's go back to the network layout with labels now.
And as you can see now,
we have both Kali and Windows
are connected to the NAT network,
and therefore they can communicate with each other.
Like I said, we're gonna gain our initial access
through this Windows network.
And then we're gonna set up pivoting rules
so we can use the Windows machine
to access the unreachable Metasploitable machine.
On the other hand, we have the Metasploitable machine.
It's network setting set to bridged,
so it's unreachable to Kali,
but it's reachable to the Windows machine
because we configured the Windows machine
to have two adapters,
one of them connected to the same network as Kali
and the other
connected to the same network as Metasploitable.
And therefore, if somebody wants to hack
into Metasploitable, they'll have to hack into Kali
and use it as a pivot to access this unreachable network,
and that's what we're gonna do in the next lecture.